As your blog grows, you're going to need a way to monitor your traffic and other key performance indicators,
Google Analytics is kind of the industry standard for this, and I encourage you to install it on day
one.
It's pretty straightforward to set up.
Just go to analytics dot Google dot com, sign in with your Google account and create a new analytics
account for your blog.
It'll give you a snippet of code to copy and paste and you'll want to make sure it's included on every
page of your site.
Some WordPress themes have a special field and the theme customizer where you can enter this, but you
can also do it with a plug in like Google Analytics by Monster Insights, which automatically adds the
tracking code to every page of your site and displays some of your traffic stats right within the WordPress
Dashboard.
I'm also a big fan of Jetpack, which is a plug in that provides a bunch of WordPress dotcom features
to self hosted users.
One of those features is a real time stat tracking interface that's simpler than Google Analytics and
great for getting a quick overview of your site's performance.
Jetpack also has a lot of other useful features, so it's worth checking out.